src/program/lwaftr/doc/README.running.md, before:

#  Running

## Finding out the PCI addresses of your NICs

Snabb lwAFTR is designed to run on **Intel 82599 10-Gigabit** NICs. Find the
address of NICs on your system with `lspci`:

```bash
$ lspci | grep 82599
01:00.0 Ethernet controller: Intel Corporation 82599ES 10-Gigabit SFI/SFP+
01:00.1 Ethernet controller: Intel Corporation 82599ES 10-Gigabit SFI/SFP+
02:00.0 Ethernet controller: Intel Corporation 82599ES 10-Gigabit SFI/SFP+
02:00.1 Ethernet controller: Intel Corporation 82599ES 10-Gigabit SFI/SFP+
03:00.0 Ethernet controller: Intel Corporation 82599ES 10-Gigabit SFI/SFP+
03:00.1 Ethernet controller: Intel Corporation 82599ES 10-Gigabit SFI/SFP+
81:00.0 Ethernet controller: Intel Corporation 82599ES 10-Gigabit SFI/SFP+
81:00.1 Ethernet controller: Intel Corporation 82599ES 10-Gigabit SFI/SFP+
82:00.0 Ethernet controller: Intel Corporation 82599ES 10-Gigabit SFI/SFP+
82:00.1 Ethernet controller: Intel Corporation 82599ES 10-Gigabit SFI/SFP+
```

Many tools accept the short form of the PCI addresses (ie, '01:00.0'), but some
require them to match the filenames in `/sys/bus/pci/devices/`, such as
`/sys/bus/pci/devices/0000:04:00.1`: in such cases, you must write `0000:01:00.0`,
with the appropriate prefix (`0000:`, in this example).

Note: Compile Snabb (see [README.build.md](README.build.md)) before attempting
the following.

## Running a load generator and the lwaftr (2 lwaftr NICs)

To run a load generator and an `lwaftr`, you will need four
interfaces. The following example assumes that `01:00.0` is cabled to
`01:00.1`, and that `02:00.0` is cabled to `02:00.1`. Change the
concrete PCI devices specified to match the current system; See [Section
1](Section 1. Finding out the PCI addresses of your NICs).

Note that unless the load generator and the lwaftr are running on the
same NUMA nodes that their NICs are connected to, performance will be
terrible.  See [README.benchmarking.md](README.benchmarking.md) and
[README.performance.md](README.performance.md) for more.

First, start the lwAFTR:

```
$ sudo ./snabb lwaftr run \
    --conf program/lwaftr/tests/data/icmp_on_fail.conf \
    --v4 0000:01:00.1 --v6 0000:02:00.1
```

Then run a load generator:

```bash
$ cd src
$ sudo ./snabb lwaftr loadtest  \
    program/lwaftr/tests/benchdata/ipv4-0550.pcap IPv4 IPv6 0000:01:00.0 \
    program/lwaftr/tests/benchdata/ipv6-0550.pcap IPv6 IPv4 0000:02:00.0
```

The load generator will push packets on the IPv4 and IPv6 interfaces,
ramping up from 0 Gbps to 10 Gbps (by default).  At each step it measures
the return traffic from the lwAFTR, and prints out all this information
to the console.  The load generator stops when the test is done.

## Running the lwaftr on one NIC ('on a stick')

To more efficiently use network bandwidth, it makes sense to run the lwaftr on
just one NIC, because traffic is not symmetric. To do this, use --on-a-stick,
and specify only one PCI address:

```
$ sudo ./snabb lwaftr run \
    --conf program/lwaftr/tests/data/icmp_on_fail.conf \
    --on-a-stick 0000:02:00.1
```


## The packetblaster

Another way of generating load is via the `packetblaster lwaftr` command,
see [its documentation](../../packetblaster/lwaftr/README).

Commit message:

Add an example of running a load generator towards on-a-stick mode

src/program/lwaftr/doc/README.running.md, after:

#  Running

## Finding out the PCI addresses of your NICs

Snabb lwAFTR is designed to run on **Intel 82599 10-Gigabit** NICs. Find the
address of NICs on your system with `lspci`:

```bash
$ lspci | grep 82599
01:00.0 Ethernet controller: Intel Corporation 82599ES 10-Gigabit SFI/SFP+
01:00.1 Ethernet controller: Intel Corporation 82599ES 10-Gigabit SFI/SFP+
02:00.0 Ethernet controller: Intel Corporation 82599ES 10-Gigabit SFI/SFP+
02:00.1 Ethernet controller: Intel Corporation 82599ES 10-Gigabit SFI/SFP+
03:00.0 Ethernet controller: Intel Corporation 82599ES 10-Gigabit SFI/SFP+
03:00.1 Ethernet controller: Intel Corporation 82599ES 10-Gigabit SFI/SFP+
81:00.0 Ethernet controller: Intel Corporation 82599ES 10-Gigabit SFI/SFP+
81:00.1 Ethernet controller: Intel Corporation 82599ES 10-Gigabit SFI/SFP+
82:00.0 Ethernet controller: Intel Corporation 82599ES 10-Gigabit SFI/SFP+
82:00.1 Ethernet controller: Intel Corporation 82599ES 10-Gigabit SFI/SFP+
```

Many tools accept the short form of the PCI addresses (ie, '01:00.0'), but some
require them to match the filenames in `/sys/bus/pci/devices/`, such as
`/sys/bus/pci/devices/0000:04:00.1`: in such cases, you must write `0000:01:00.0`,
with the appropriate prefix (`0000:`, in this example).

Note: Compile Snabb (see [README.build.md](README.build.md)) before attempting
the following.

## Running a load generator and the lwaftr (2 lwaftr NICs)

To run a load generator and an `lwaftr`, you will need four
interfaces. The following example assumes that `01:00.0` is cabled to
`01:00.1`, and that `02:00.0` is cabled to `02:00.1`. Change the
concrete PCI devices specified to match the current system; See [Section
1](Section 1. Finding out the PCI addresses of your NICs).

Note that unless the load generator and the lwaftr are running on the
same NUMA nodes that their NICs are connected to, performance will be
terrible.  See [README.benchmarking.md](README.benchmarking.md) and
[README.performance.md](README.performance.md) for more.

First, start the lwAFTR:

```
$ sudo ./snabb lwaftr run \
    --conf program/lwaftr/tests/data/icmp_on_fail.conf \
    --v4 0000:01:00.1 --v6 0000:02:00.1
```

Then run a load generator:

```bash
$ cd src
$ sudo ./snabb lwaftr loadtest  \
    program/lwaftr/tests/benchdata/ipv4-0550.pcap IPv4 IPv6 0000:01:00.0 \
    program/lwaftr/tests/benchdata/ipv6-0550.pcap IPv6 IPv4 0000:02:00.0
```

The load generator will push packets on the IPv4 and IPv6 interfaces,
ramping up from 0 Gbps to 10 Gbps (by default).  At each step it measures
the return traffic from the lwAFTR, and prints out all this information
to the console.  The load generator stops when the test is done.

## Running the lwaftr on one NIC ('on a stick')

To more efficiently use network bandwidth, it makes sense to run the lwaftr on
just one NIC, because traffic is not symmetric. To do this, use --on-a-stick,
and specify only one PCI address:

```
$ sudo ./snabb lwaftr run \
    --conf program/lwaftr/tests/data/icmp_on_fail.conf \
    --on-a-stick 0000:02:00.1
```

You can run a load generator:

```
$ sudo ./snabb lwaftr loadtest \
    program/lwaftr/tests/benchdata/ipv4-0550.pcap IPv4 IPv6 0000:82:00.0 \
    program/lwaftr/tests/benchdata/ipv6-0550.pcap IPv6 IPv4 0000:82:00.1
```

For the main lwaftr instance to receive any traffic, either 82:00.0 or 82:00.1
should be wired to 02:00.1 . Since `lwaftr loadtest` does not currently have
an on-a-stick mode, the main lwaftr instance will only see half the loadtest
traffic.

## The packetblaster

Another way of generating load is via the `packetblaster lwaftr` command,
see [its documentation](../../packetblaster/lwaftr/README).
